Everyone welcome back to the course.
So up until this point the content strategy lectures have covered a lot of the houses involved setting
things up and choosing your weapons so to speak.
We talked about how to define your audience how to rely on common content types and topics and get ramped
up more quickly.
How to figure out what to write and how to do all this with clear goals in mind.
Well in the next group of lectures starting right now in fact I want to walk you through some tactics
for creating content that builds on all of the strategies we've covered so far.
We're going to cover five different content formats that get used pretty often across the interweb.
The idea here is that yes it's great that we know the types and topics but now what's an actual strategy
I could use.
And how do I do it correctly.
So without further ado let's go over our first tactic which we call the canonical long form post.
Now what is that exactly.
Yes I know before we talked about the ultimate guide type of content and well that actually fits under
this umbrella.
So a long form post as it's referred to in the content marketing universe is technically any post that's
twenty five hundred words or more and that 2500 number.
Well it's kind of just an artificial limit that some people I guess put on themselves when they write
blog posts.
Some people of course limit themselves to two thousand words.
Other people might say 3000.
I kind of splitting the difference here.
But for some reason this is the range people consider for a long form.
The point is that most post people write for the purposes of content marketing or filling the Blagg
are way less than that number.
Hey less than twenty five hundred words.
It's rarely the case you see an article that breaks a seven hundred.
So why do content writers do that specifically you might ask.
Never write anything longer than a page or so.
Well there are probably three good reasons for that.
For one it's just easier writing last takes less time less effort number two.
Writing shorter pieces means you can publish more of them.
For some reason some places feel compelled to deliver a high number of content pieces every week or
every day.
And so shorter content allows people to write more.
It's kind of a loophole but you have to remember that a lot of these places writing blogs every single
day get paid by the page view or by display advertisement advertisements.
So if you send someone three short articles that's three different page views versus a one long which
is usually just going end up being one page view.
I know it's goofy.
And the third reason people write shorter stuff is because writers think readers want shorter pieces
you know keep telling you this all the time.
We have limited attention spans.
Mobile devices of smaller screens the smaller screens make it a lot harder to read etc. etc..
Now these reasons aren't necessarily wrong but what they do is cause writers and marketers and other
people who want to create content to shy away from those longer more authoritative pieces pieces that
deliver more value and frankly just last a lot longer.
And if you heard me say the word canonical earlier that's exactly what that means.
Canonical authoritative or basically like the final word.
If you create a piece that's the final word on a topic or issue that's a significant accomplishment
if you follow through on it of course.
My point here is that you shouldn't ignore the long form content options these pieces longer than twenty
five hundred words.
And in fact I've mentioned them already.
You might remember me actually talking about those ultimate guides awhile back in how some places use
them to generate a lot of views or downloads or other important metrics.
Well you can bet that when they discussed creating an Ultimate Guide nobody at buffer or nobody had
MailChimp or any other places that create these guides all the time said sounds great guys but let's
just keep it under 3000 words and they don't want to give that people too much value.
You can tell I'm a little biased towards long form if you didn't catch that by looking at the length
of this course.
OK.
You got it long for us.
Twenty five hundred words or above why that number.
Only God knows.
Why don't more people do it.
Well because there's a plague going around that causes companies to think that they need to publish
quantity not quality.
Well guess what.
Longer form content is significantly more valuable than those shorter posts and they're not just great
value for your readers but you as well.
Let's go over some of the reasons why long form content works and hopefully that will give you a better
understanding of kind of the relative value of longer pieces compared to other ones out there floating
in the space of the Internet.
And since we're talking about long form we're going to cover eight whole reasons because that's epic
and long.
So number one is that longer form pieces have better search rankings.
When you look at Google and you search for how to do something you'll notice that there is a general
trend the results that are at the top of the list are generally going to be longer because Google just
assumes longer pieces of information that are there for the person searching it's more likely to be
satisfied.
So Google is pretty biased towards long form stuff.
Second reason is that they didn't General generate more social.
Data shows that post longer than 2000 words rank higher than shorter ones.
And while many people are creating shorter pieces of content more data shows that longer content just
gets shared a lot more probably because people are more proud of it or more willing to show it off.
This means that an opportunity exists if you're willing to create those longer form pieces.
So that's two reasons you rank higher and people are more likely to share it.
But here's number three.
It's more convenient for the reader with a long form piece that covers a lot more material the reader
won't have to go to different sources to get all the information or content they need.
All of that value is included in one place so that increases the value of the canonical piece you made.
The fourth reason is well what other benefits can you expect from long form pieces.
Well people will spend more time on your site.
This is generally an important metric.
Keeping people on your site longer it means they'll look for more value you might have.
Now of course there's a little bit different than the newspaper sites or the buzz feeds where they get
paid by banner ads or display ads where they just want people to click around.
But with longer form content means they stay on it longer if they're more likely to go to other pages.
The fifth reason is that long form pieces result in better reputation and authority for you.
You go through all of this effort to create a bigger better piece of content.
It's not going to go unnoticed beyond the actual ranking sharers and other numbers people will begin
to view you more of an authority especially if you bring something new to the space that you're jumping
into.
Reason Number six is another nice benefit of long form content is that it's got long term value longer
pieces will get more views long after short post have gone out of date.
They've got more staying power so it's great to have content do more work for you in the future rather
than less in the future.
And the reason why it lasts longer has to do with the fact that you wrote a 10 page piece on something.
It's going to be a while before someone decides to make an 11 page piece on it and supersedes you and
your rankings there in general just more timeless.
The seventh reason is that it's easier to collect data along forum post.
Some sites offer up e-books or ultimate guides and PTF and to get to that they require e-mail address
for you to download.
Getting your content like this is much easier to do with a big definitive guide as opposed to just baiting
someone with a 500 word blog post than saying oh you got to trade your email for it is rarely worth
it for the user.
The long form piece of content there's more perceived value and that generally just means people are
more willing to give up something in exchange for it.
A number a the last freeze in the last benefit using long form content of long form posts are usually
easier to promote.
You can grab all kinds of content from a big post to help you promote it.
This means that you can take excerpts quotes or images in just sentences and then use them in social
media posts images videos you can promote individual sections you can spin them off into their own like
miniature pose.
There's a lot you can do with it.
That's obviously hard to do with a short five hundred word post.
There's just not as much meat on the bone.
Now all of these villains should sound good to you but I know creating long form content is easier said
than done.
So how actually do you do it.
Well in the next lecture I'll walk you through some of the choices you need to make and most important
will be deciding on your topic.
If you're ready to see how to put together a long form piece and I'll see you in the next lecture.
Otherwise skip it.